7795
ch has amassed on the effects of monetary policy on house prices. This recent research, however, is rarely cited in the policy debate, which remains influenced by the arguments of Taylor (2007) in favor of the effectiveness of short-term rates in taming bubbles. 1 Perhaps one of the reasons for the relatively limited impact of the recent research is the variance in results. The literature lacks a synthesis that would assign a pattern to the different conclusions. That is what we attempt to provide in this paper. Figure 1 shows the mean response of house prices to a one-percentage-point increase in the short-term monetary policy rate. The mean is extracted from 237 impulse responses reported in 37 studies. The impulse responses, computed from vector autoregressions (VARs, Sims 1980), are the main output of these studies. Figure 1. Mean reported response of house prices to a monetary tightening. Notes: Computed based on 1,555 estimates from 237 impulse responses reported in 37 papers. On average, the response bottoms out after two years at a 1.2% decrease in house prices following a one-percentage-point increase in the policy rate Hence our meta-analysis is unusual in that we collect and examine graphical results: the exact numerical results are rarely reported. For selected time horizons after the monetary policy shock we measure pixel coordinates and collect the estimated response of house prices. Meta-analyses of graphical results are rare, and a prominent recent example is the meticulous survey by Fabo et al. (2021) on the effects of quantitative easing. Note that Fig. 1 shows the corresponding 68% confidence interval (one standard error on both sides of the mean), which is the norm in the VAR literature. (Few impulse responses would be statistically significant at the 5% level common in most other fields of economics.) The impulse response bottoms out after two years at a 1.2% decrease in house prices following a one-percentage-point increase in the policy rate. We will call this effect, here 1.2, a semi-elasticity. It is clear that, on average, with such a small semi-elasticity central banks cannot plausibly combat double-digit inflation in house prices. The implication echoes Williams (2016), a concise narrative survey of 10 earlier papers on the topic. But a mean figure conceals important differences in the context in which the impulse response is estimated. Perhaps in some countries and certain phases of the business cycle, leaning against the wind can help moderate the increase in house prices (and, vice versa, a loose policy may help reflate depressed housing markets). Calza et al. (2013) suggest that the transmission of monetary policy to house prices is stronger in countries with larger flexibility and development of mortgage markets. Similarly, Iacoviello and Minetti (2003) show that financial liberalization can be important for the strength of transmission. Assenmacher-Wesche and Gerlach (2010) examine whether transmission differs be
